# REGRESSION-ANALYSIS
Regression Analysis using the EdSurvey package (Bailey et al., 2022) of R software (R. Core, 2013).  
In this analysis, I evaluate the association between collective teacher innovativeness and teacher autonomy using Finnish **data** from the Teaching and Learning International Survey (TALIS) 2018 cycle. TALIS data is selected because it provides remarkably rich data on innovativeness and autonomy(OECD., 2020). Finland was selected because it is among the countries that have for a long time embraced forms of integrative teaching in their education system (Haapaniemi et al., 2021), where teachers have the freedom to transform not just the content in the curriculum into meaningful lessons by relying on their own professionalism, but are also actively involved in curriculum formulation.
The analysis was guided by the **Question**: Is there an association between collective teacher innovativeness and teacher autonomy in Finish schools?
The **Hypothesis** was that teachers with high pedagogical autonomy tend to be more open to taking on further responsibilities for school improvement and are likely to be more innovative and creative (Nguyen et al., 2021). Hence, collective innovativeness was expected to correlate positively with teachers' rating of the degree of their own classroom autonomy.
This analysis may contribute to the understanding of the nature of the relationship between collective teacher innovativeness and teacher autonomy in Finland. This may provide evidence for promoting teacher autonomy and school innovativeness that encourages positive change in schools. 

The **variables of interest** were: Collective Teacher Innovativeness (t3team)-outcome variable, Teacher Autonomy (t3satat)-predictor variable and Control Variables - Teacher’s Gender (tt3g01) and Teaching experience (tt3g11b).

The **results** showed that teacher autonomy (t3satat), controlling for teaching experience and gender explains approximately 2% of variance (R2=.02). This indicates that the predictors in this model explain some but not much of the variation in collective teacher innovativeness. Teacher autonomy is a positive significant predictor of collective teacher innovativeness (β= .062 SE= .019, p-value <.01). Specifically, one unit increase in own perception autonomy increases perceptions of collective innovativeness by .062 points. This suggests that individual perceptions of autonomy influence their collective innovativeness perceptions. A slight increase was noted in the final model coefficients when compared to a single predictor-outcome relation.
Only teaching experience (β= .018, SE= .0037, p-value <.001) was positively associated with teacher perceptions of collective innovativeness. Precisely, one unit increase in teaching experience increases perceptions of collective innovativeness by .018 points. Gender was not a significant predictor (β= -.120, SE= .075, p-value =.113) and was negatively associated with collective teacher innovativeness. Male teachers tend to rate the degree of collective innovativeness (.120) lower than female teachers. 
